TUBERCULOSIS
ABOUT:
Tuberculosis, MTB, or TB (short for tubercle bacillus) is a common, and in many cases lethal, infectious disease caused by various strains of mycobacteria, usually Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
Tuberculosis typically attacks the lungs, but can also affect other parts of the body.
 It is spread through the air when people who have an active TB infection cough, sneeze, or otherwise transmit respiratory fluids through the air.
Most infections are asymptomatic and latent, but about one in ten latent infections eventually progresses to active disease which, if left untreated, kills more than 50% of those so infected.

SIGNS AND SYMPTOMS:
Tuberculosis may infect any part of the body, but most commonly occurs in the lungs (known as pulmonary tuberculosis).
Extrapulmonary TB occurs when tuberculosis develops outside of the lungs, although extrapulmonary TB may coexist with pulmonary TB as well.
General signs and symptoms include fever, chills, night sweats, loss of appetite, weight loss, and fatigue.
Significant finger clubbing may also occur.

PREVEVTION:
Tuberculosis prevention and control efforts primarily rely on the vaccination of infants and the detection and appropriate treatment of active cases.
The World Health Organization has achieved some success with improved treatment regimens, and a small decrease in case numbers.

VACCINES:
The only currently available vaccine as of 2011 is bacillus Calmette–Guérin (BCG) which, while it is effective against disseminated disease in childhood, confers inconsistent protection against contracting pulmonary TB.
 Nevertheless, it is the most widely used vaccine worldwide, with more than 90% of all children being vaccinated.
However, the immunity it induces decreases after about ten years.
As tuberculosis is uncommon in most of Canada, the United Kingdom, and the United States, BCG is only administered to people at high risk.
Part of the reasoning arguing against the use of the vaccine is that it makes the tuberculin skin test falsely positive, and therefore, of no use in screening.
A number of new vaccines are currently in development.

DRUGS:
isoniaziad
rifampicin
pyrazinamide
ethambutol
streptomycin
moxifloxacin
