ASTHMA
ABOUT:
Asthma is a common chronic inflammatory disease of the airways characterized by variable and recurring symptoms, reversible airflow obstruction and bronchospasm.[2] Common symptoms include wheezing, coughing, chest tightness, and shortness of breath.[3]
Asthma is thought to be caused by a combination of genetic and environmental factors.
Its diagnosis is usually based on the pattern of symptoms, response to therapy over time and spirometry.
It is clinically classified according to the frequency of symptoms, forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1), and peak expiratory flow rate.
Asthma may also be classified as atopic (extrinsic) or non-atopic (intrinsic)where atopy refers to a predisposition toward developing type 1 hypersensitivity reactions.

SIGNS AND SYMPTOMS:
Asthma (from the Greek ?s?µa, ásthma, "panting") is a common chronic inflammatory disease of the airways characterized by variable and recurring symptoms, reversible airflow obstruction and bronchospasm.
Common symptoms include wheezing, coughing, chest tightness, and shortness of breath.
Asthma is thought to be caused by a combination of genetic and environmental factors.
Its diagnosis is usually based on the pattern of symptoms, response to therapy over time and spirometry.
It is clinically classified according to the frequency of symptoms, forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1), and peak expiratory flow rate.
Asthma may also be classified as atopic (extrinsic) or non-atopic (intrinsic)where atopy refers to a predisposition toward developing type 1 hypersensitivity reactions.


CAUSES:
Asthma is caused by a combination of complex and incompletely understood environmental and genetic interactions.
These factors influence both its severity and its responsiveness to treatment.
It is believed that the recent increased rates of asthma are due to changing epigenetics (heritable factors other than those related to the DNA sequence) and a changing living environment.

PREVENTION:
The evidence for the effectiveness of measures to prevent the development of asthma is weak.
Some show promise including: limiting smoke exposure both in utero and after delivery, breastfeeding, and increased exposure to daycare or large families but none are well supported enough to be recommended for this indication.
Early pet exposure may be useful.
Results from exposure to pets at other times are inconclusive and it is only recommended that pets be removed from the home if a person has allergic symptoms to said pet.
Dietary restrictions during pregnancy or when breast feeding have not been found to be effective and thus are not recommended.
Reducing or eliminating compounds known to sensitive people from the work place may be effective.

DRUGS:
INHALER SHOULD BE PROVIDED FOR INSTANTENOUS RELEIF
inhaled corticosteroids
leukotriene modifiers
long acting beta agonists
thenophylline
iptratropium
allergy shots.
