DIPTHERIA
ABOUT:
Diphtheria is an upper respiratory tract illness caused by Corynebacterium diphtheriae, a facultative anaerobic, Gram-positive bacterium.
It is characterized by sore throat, low fever, and an adherent membrane (a pseudomembrane) on the tonsils, pharynx, and/or nasal cavity.
A milder form of diphtheria can be restricted to the skin. Less common consequences include myocarditis (about 20% of cases)and peripheral neuropathy.
Diphtheria is an infectious disease spread by direct physical contact or breathing the aerosolized secretions of infected individuals.

SIGNS AND SYMPTOMS:
The symptoms of diphtheria usually begin two to seven days after infection. Symptoms of diphtheria include fever of 38°C (100.4°F) or above,
chills, fatigue, bluish skin coloration, sore throat, hoarseness.
cough, headache, difficulty swallowing, painful swallowing.
difficulty breathing, rapid breathing, foul-smelling bloodstained nasal discharge and lymphadenopathy.
Symptoms can also include cardiac arrhythmias, myocarditis, and cranial and peripheral nerve palsies. 

TREATMENT:
The disease may remain manageable, but in more severe cases, lymph nodes in the neck may swell, and breathing and swallowing will be more difficult.
People in this stage should seek immediate medical attention, as obstruction in the throat may require intubation or a tracheotomy.
Abnormal cardiac rhythms can occur early in the course of the illness or weeks later, and can lead to heart failure.
Diphtheria can also cause paralysis in the eye, neck, throat, or respiratory muscles.
Patients with severe cases will be put in a hospital intensive care unit and be given a diphtheria antitoxin.
Since antitoxin does not neutralize toxin that is already bound to tissues, delaying its administration is associated with an increase in mortality risk.
Therefore, the decision to administer diphtheria antitoxin is based on clinical diagnosis, and should not await laboratory confirmation.
Antibiotics have not been demonstrated to affect healing of local infection in diphtheria patients treated with antitoxin.
Antibiotics are used in patients or carriers to eradicate C. diphtheriae and prevent its transmission to others.

DRUGS:
Metronidazole
Erythromycin (orally or by injection) for 14 days (40 mg/kg per day with a maximum of 2 g/d).
Procaine penicillin G given intramuscularly for 14 days.